First class 29.08.2019
In todays class we reviewed some of the material studied in the previous year which I found very helpful as it reminded me of some concepts I hadnt touched on in a long time. 
I really enjoyed the small but interesting slide about Blockchain and would like to learn more about that and maybe there is even a possibility to use this in my CS IA. Lets see...
I found the challenge very interesting and engaging. More of that!
This was a very different type and style of class than what we had in the previous year and I really enjoyed it. 

Second class.02.09.2019
We started seeting up the raspery pi´s which was easy for me as I had joined the weekend session and therefore had my login already setup and the VNC viewer installed. 
Later we had a brief talk about our IA ideas and progress which I found very helpful to get started with it. As next steps I will have to further develop and think through the different sections, functunalities and design of the platform I want to program. 
A UML diagram will therefore be the right next step as well as creating a graphic prototype in Adobe XD. 
Due to other IA deadlines in other subjects, I am currently not able to completely focus on the IA and truly dive into the topic which I think is essential for computer science to truly first understand something and plkan it out before starting blindly. 

Third class: 03.09.2019
We did some work on networks and worked through the different layers which are standardized and their real world applications. 
Later the python programming was very interesting. I feel the need to learn more syntax for python to improve in that. Also I felt the need, to review and trace the code later at home to better understand it. 
I got a better understanding of what python is and all the applications a RPi can be used for. 

Fourth class 10.09.2019
Today we split the class into two, one group working on HTML and CSS web developing and the my group trying to establish a VPN server on a rasperry pi. 
We therefore used the VNC viewer and the terminal in the RPi to install PiVPN from git hub, set up a client. Some smaller problems occurred in the process such as deciding if using the TCP or UDP protocol ocurred in the process as these steps where not indicated in the guiding webpage we used. 
Therefore we researched these thing seperately which was no probblem. Unfortunately we reached the end of the class before we had time to figure out why we werent able to extract the key file of the VPN client from the RPi. 
We used Webstorm for this, however error messages popped up and couldnt been resolved in class time.
Hopefully we find some time to resolve this in the upcoming classes to fully understand how to set up a VPN server on a RPi. 
We recorded our steps in a shared document as well as IP addresses, passwords, user names etc to later be able to remind ourselves of this and not have to start over again. 

Fifth class 12.09.2019
Today we continued figuring out how to extract the vpn key file from the RPi onto our computers in order to be able to connect to the VPN server installed on the RPi. 
This time we tried through using the scp... command and to extract the file via ssh and place it into our own Desktops. 
We failed again and as so often in computer science spend a long time trying to figure out what could possibly be wrong and read online forums looking for people with the same problem. 
All this was not helpful and we were not able to even connect to the RPi via ssh as it denied the password. 
As a last line we tried rebooting, leaving the room and trying over agin which also did not work. 
We decided to therefore chose a different RPi. We reinstalled the VPN server and added a client. This time we were able to extract the key file. 
In the key file on our desktop we then changed the IP address to the address of the RPi and set the port to the default port 1194. 
And it finally worked. 
I find this part of searching for errors the hardest part of computer science, as a very simple error can take ours to be found. However, this is where I learn the most and really understand the underlying proceses. 

Six class 16.09.2019 
In todays class, we first reviewed "System fundamentals", the first topic studied in G11 in a short Kahoot. This was fun and I find it helpful to recall things studied a long time ago and reinforce the memory. 
Afterwards we started discussing how we could mathematically encrypt a message symmetrically using a private and public key and how this could be programmed. 
Later we started writing the HTML and CSS for such a program, while not spending much time on design but just some simple input fields. 
Even though very basic, I find this very helpful to remember webDevelopment which will be helpful in starting my IA work soon. 
As Homework, we will finish our "How to set up a VPN server on a RPI" instruction slides and will draw a flowchart for the encryption tool program which will be continued in the next class. 
I will definetely have to look up the flowchart drawing tecniques to recall this into my memory. 
I am looking forward to continuing this program soon as I am not yet completely sure how to work with the inputs and how to interconnect JavaScript and HTML. 

7th class 17.09.2019 
Today we continued our encoding program. First we reviewed our flowcharts. In this task, I had problems identifying how to cpmputationally check the length of the keyword and if this is shorter than the message to be encrypetd how o repeat this. 
Programming was also hard, as I had troubles installing coffescript due to the instructions being for apple hence I had a hard time following the lesson and will have to review the material at home. 
The RocketBook notebooks are very useful and I think a great way of using paper in a more sustainable way while also keeping track of notes in an organized way. 

8th class 19.09.2019 
In todays class, we started by having 20 minutes to research and answer 4 questions in an IB style regarding the topic "Networks". The 4 command terms: "Describe, Define, Evaluate and Explain" were used. 
This task had the intentiont to both familiarize ourselves more with answering these specific command terms but also with the content of the topic networking. 
Later, we finished the encoding program. I had installed all the necessary plug-ins and programs at home however needed some of the teachers help to configure this so it would actually work. 
As I am a little unfamiliar with coffeescript syntax, I found it a little bit hard to trace the code and follow the logic of the program. 
I will review this at home. 
At the end, we looked into the criterion "Planning" of our IAs. We loked at a high scoring example and as homework will start the planning stage and draw a sketch/flowchart of our IA. 

9th class 24.09.2019 
Today, we looked at how to install mysql server o a rasperry pi in order to be able to use this as a hosting server for our IAs which all will nned a database. 
Before this, we recalled how to draw simple ER diagrams, showing the relationships between different database tables for a simple class management program consisting of student, classes and teachers. 
Then we installed sqlserver on the RPis and configured them. 
I made some mistake in the configuration process, as I wasnt asked for a password. Ill have to find out the reason for this. 
I took note of all steps and commands, so I can repeat this later at home and later use the same process in my IA. 
Later we entered the phpadmin and graphically created our first tables with different columns of different data type and properties. 
Next week we will start connecting a login page to a database. 
I am looking forward to this, as I will need both of this in my IA. 

10th class 20.09.2019 
Today we finished our login application. We first wrote the HTML and CSS, connected the database we had created in the previous class through going to Tools>Deployment>Browse Remote Host. 
There we created a PHP file in which we linked to the HTML. Opening the file in the browser, we tested if it was working. I had to adapt some variable names, and make some changes in the database regarding username and password and then it finally worked. 
I will use this knowledge later on for my IA as I will need to code a LogIn page for this one as well. 
This was very useful and gave me a better idea of how my IA might look like. 
We used the rest of the class to prepare for a test on te topic "Networks" which we will have in the upcoming class. 

11th class 01.10.2019
Todays class covered HL material, hence I had time to work on my IA. 
I continued working on a graphic prototype in Adobe XD. I worked on different graphic screens which show how my program could later look like and offer a functional and structured prottype. 
Later I could include different buttons, to make the prototype interactive. This helped me test my own application and its user friendliness and functionality. 
After testing it myself extensively, I made some changes and simplified some parts. After this I shared the prototype with my customer for review. After his consultation I will make possible changes and start the next phase of the planning, developing UML diagrams and the underlying structure of the software.

12th class
We wrote a test on networks. 

13th class 
In order to receive the results from our exams, we first had to write a program that would output the mean, median, Q1, Q3 and IQR. 
After short consideration whcih IDE and which language to use, I decided the most simple thing would be to write in Java and use an online compiler. 
While the logic for this program is fairly simple, I had to recall the syntax of Java, having used varying languages over the past weeks so I was a bit confused about them. 
However, it still worked out and I managed to program it in 50min and therefore received 4,5 extra points on my test. 
Aftreward I had to leave slightly early, to have lunch with Mr Jemison ;)
